# HOW TO

This file describes things that can be performed with __EvolAcc 0.1.0__.
This is something like a usecase tutorial, for final users and for developpers !


## Add a new program option

Many options already exists, like *--factory*, *--help* or *--interactive*.
To add a new option, the developper needs to:
- add new option in *__main__.py* docstring, according to [docopt](http://docopt.org/ ) syntax;
- add constant name in *config* module (like *UNIVERSE\_SIZE* for example) with associated key;

Some things may be necessary, according to what is the option goal:
- if it needs to be casted in a particular format, *__normalized* and *__converted* functions must be filled;
- if a default value exist, then it must be set in *__default_configuration* function;
- if needed, add manually the field to the config file, or use *--save_config* flag to erase and rewrite it;

This done, the remaining work is to use it !


## Create a new simulation

Just launch EvolAcc, create and run a new Simulation !

The goal of this section is to show what things must be done to implement new Simulation patterns.
First, the principle and goals of Simulation must be determined. For example :

- *Two species coevolves and each represents the K/r strategy ; which will be the most adaptated to a (un)stable world ?*
- *A eat B, B eat C and C eat A ; is it possible to find rules that describes evolution of this world ?*
- *in a world with poles and equator, is a speciation possible ?*
- etc...

To do that, it's necessary to create a package in the *evolacc/userdata/simulations/* directory.
This package must implement at least one function called *create_configuration*, which will return a hashmap containing parameters of the simulation.
This function can easily be defined in the `__init__.py` file, where importable objects are specified.
For example, here is a stupid example that runs an empty simulation:

        from evolacc.config import UNIVERSE_SIZE, STEPS_AT_START

        def create_configuration():
            return {
                UNIVERSE_SIZE  : [20,20],
                STEPS_AT_START : 150,
            }

A more interesting one:

        from evolacc.config  import UNIVERSE_SIZE, FACTORY_CLASSES, STEPS_AT_START
        from evolacc.factory import FactoryExample

        def create_configuration():
            return {
                UNIVERSE_SIZE  : [20,20],
                FACTORY_CLASSES: [FactoryExample],
                STEPS_AT_START : 150,
            }

Others examples can be found in the *evolacc/userdata/simulations/* directory.
Once the simulation package is defined, EvolAcc can be launched:

        python -m evolacc --universe_size=100,100 --simulations=MySimulationPackage --steps_at_start=1000 --watchers=AGlobalWatcher1,AGlobalWatcher2


## Determine priority of configurations

Configuration of simulation package have an higher priority than command line arguments,
that have itself an higher priority than configuration file,
that have itself an higher priority than default configuration hardcoded in config module.

With a math-based approach :

    Simulation package > command line > configuration file > hardcoded default

This way, a simulation package is given total control on how the EvolAcc system is set up.


## Game of Life in universe of 100 by 100 for 100 phases

The Conway's Game of Life is a very simple cellular automaton, and reproduce its behavior is always fun.

In EvolAcc, it can be implemented like this:
- a cell is a Unit with a Custom Genome that contain, mainly, a state (alive or dead);
- an UnitFactory will be designed to create alive or dead cell according to a density;
- the FunctionCall Action will be used for implementation of state switching;
- a watcher that print alive and dead cells;

All these things are already implemented in a simulation package named *gol*, that can be find in the *evolacc/userdata/simulations/gol/* directory.
Developpers are encouraged to take a look at these classes before implementing their own simulations.

For example, launching a Game of Life for 100 phases and in a world of 100 by 100 can be done this way:

        python -m evolacc --simulations=gol --universe_size=100,100 --steps_at_start=100


## Use global Action, Component, Factory and Watcher

It can be useful, when a Simulation is defined, to add some things around.
A good example is to improve a simulation adding a factory that injects data into simulation, or a watcher that will allow visualisation of the simulation or on-line data processing.

Global classes must be defined in the *evolacc/userdata/global/* directory, according to their role (Action, Component, Factory or Watcher).
They can be specified through the *FACTORY_CLASSES* option and its related key in a configuration object, or by command line arguments.

        python -m evolacc --simulations=gol --watchers=AGlobalWatcher

